Step 1: Identify, evaluate and prioritize processes. First we need to identify processes that has an
automation potential, then we need to evaluate those processes in more detail - both their applicability
for using the RPA technology, but also their business potential in terms of expected return on investment.
Finally, we need to prioritize which processes to automate and in what order before we move on to the next step.
...
First looking at: How to identify processes. How do we actually do this in practice?
Well, first of all it is important to establish interest and understanding of RPA in your organization.
This can be done in several ways,
for example, you could be holding training seminars and presentations for your colleagues. You could be sending
informational emails to your organization.
You could be sharing RPA content and articles, or you could have your colleagues finish a course
like this one on Udemy.
It's all about creating awareness and necessary understanding, so that your colleagues actually understand
the technology; what it is, how it works, its benefits and disadvantages.
When you've created the necessary awareness it's time to identify the processes that has an automation potential,
and a good and proven way of doing this is by organizing internal workshops with different
business functions and create a high level long list of processes with an automation potential for every
single business function/unit.
I would recommend you to have the different business function come up with at least 10 business
processes each. And once that is done, you merge these lists together and then you'll have a comprehensive list
of processes with an automation potential.
So you may ask "what does such a list look like?".
Well, it might look something like this:
In the long list here we have the "Process name"; indicating what the task is.
So here we see the first example.
The task name is "Post invoices".
Then we have the "Process trigger" which indicates what trigger, event or condition that kick off the task.
This could be a schedule, for example, that the task need to be done on a certain day or at a certain time.
...
It could be a file system trigger, for example, that the task needs to be done whenever one or more files
are received, added, modified or deleted in a specific folder on your computer or on a server.
Or it could be triggered by an e-mail,
for example, whenever you receive an email matching some criteria.
This could be that the subject line contains certain words,
for example, "robot task".
Then we have the process steps which simply describes the process from a high level perspective
so that we all have an idea of the process flow.
For the "Post invoices"-example we log into an application, where we search for invoices, we do a control
of these invoices, before we post them and then we close the application. The next element in the long
list is the "Estimated number of hours spent on the process", and it should be a combination of a qualified
guess and an estimate - That is what I like to call an "Guesstimate" - on how much time employees
spend every year on doing the process manually today.
The reason for doing this is so that we have an idea of the time saving potential of the process if
automated.
Then we have the "Estimated automation potential", which should be your best "guesstimate" on how many percentage
of the processes, transactions or task that actually can be automated.
As we can see from the example here, the estimated automation potential for the first process is set
to 80%.
This could mean that 20% of invoices need a humans opinion before being posted, because there are
no rule-based way to treat those invoices.
And finally we have "All systems the process interacts with" and a general rule is that more systems increases
automation complexity and therefore how much time is needed for RPA development and process maintenance.
For the "Post invoices"-example we see that there are basically two systems we interact with, which
is  the invoice application and Microsoft Outlook.
You will find a long list process identification PowerPoint template
in this courses downloadable resources.
Once a long list of processes has been made, we need to start evaluating the most promising processes
in more detail.
A good indication of what processes to evaluate in more detail can be found by taking the estimated
number of hours spent on the process and multiply by the estimated automation potential. The higher the
numbers of hours spent, the higher the automation potential. Then we could for example evaluate the 10 most
promising processes according to this estimate in more detail using an automation matrix. And an automation
matrix may look something like this:
Looking at the matrix we have different fields to be filled with information for automation potential
and for automation complexity.
In addition we use color coding to identify whether a process has high potential or low complexity;
shown by the green color. Medium potential or medium complexity; shown by the yellow color. Or low potential
or high complexity; shown by the red color.
So if we start by looking at potential we have first the average processing time for a process or transaction,
then we have the number of times the process or transaction is executed every week,
then what share of the process that can be automated, and then how many full time employees (FTEs) are potentially
replaced if the process is automated.
Then we'd like to ask whether the process have peak periods because we know that processes with seasonal
peaks normally extend delivery time due to little or no test data.
And then we ask whether the process is prone to errors, which will normally reduce the automation potential
of the process if so.
The complexity are shortening and lengthening factors that will help estimate how much delivery time
is needed to develop the process using RPA delivery software.
In practice companies often set robotics delivery duration to either 4 weeks for non-complex processes,
8 weeks for medium complex processes and 12 weeks for high complex processes.
Important questions to ask to do this estimate is whether the process input is standardized; because we
know that processes requiring a lot of data cleansing will make the robot delivery time longer. Then we
ask; is the process input digital and structured? Structured, digital data in limited forms will reduce
complexity. While unstructured data, maybe even on paper and in unlimited forms, will make process automation
harder - or even impossible.
Is the process well documented?
Remember that we never automate a bad process!
What are the process data sources and which systems does the process use? Fewer systems, use of standard
systems that many companies use and systems with good code reduces complexity; while processes traveling
across many systems, legacy and proprietary systems and systems using remote access will take more time
to develop. Is the process rules-based?
Well, short rule-based processes are better than longer processes with a few or no rules. And then we'll
like to ask
if the process have exceptions, because few exceptions and few errors are much easier to handle than
processes with many exceptions and many errors.
Lastly, we like to ask if there are any need to make process changes before automation which if the answer
is "yes",
also will have an impact on the delivery time.
Let's continue with our "Post invoices"-example and fill out the different fields of the automation matrix.
The average processing time for each invoice is 2 minutes and this is done 1100 times every day for
5 days a week.
And this sums up to 5500 times a week.
We know that 80% of the process can be automated and this translates into 3.7 full time employees (FTEs)
a year.
The process does not have peak periods and the process is not prone to errors,
so the potential here is pretty high
I would say. Looking at the complexity, we know that the process input is standardized - It's all coming from an
invoice application system, it's digital and structured and the process is very well documented.
The data sources of the process are the invoice application system and apart from that, it only uses Outlook.
The process is rules-based and it has some few exceptions, which are the 20% that cannot be automated
and still need humans to handle. And there are no process changes needed for automation.
So now I've shown you some important questions that you can ask when you want to evaluate processes
in more detail and I've added an extended process automation matrix Excel template in this courses
downloadable resources that you may use in your organization to evaluate processes.
You're welcome! Once processes are evaluated,
we will have a good understanding of the different processes automation potential and complexity.
To find out what processes to automate first,
we use an automation impact assessment where processes are assessed for automation potential
and complexity.
And since we cannot know - with 100% certainty - the exact potential and complexity of a process, such
an assessment is a very good and visual way to find the processes with the highest RPA potential.
In our example, the "Post invoice"-process looks like a very good candidate having a high automation potential
and low complexity.
The high automation potential is based on the fact that we can potentially save 3.7 full time employees (FTEs)
on automating this one process.
The low complexity means it can potentially be automated in approximately four weeks and the return
on investment (ROI) for such a process is usually very high - and the payback time very low. Please also do remember
that there are other benefits of process automation than just economical.
Automation is usually equivalent to higher quality as well.
And if high quality is a goal for your organization, this should be emphasized when prioritising different
processes.
Before we end this lesson, I would just like to add a quick note on where to start looking for automation
potential in your organization.
The consulting firm EY recently undertook a comprehensive research aimed at providing actionable insights
to leaders ready to take advantage of automation and ethically drive business transformation.
They mapped automation scores to nearly 2000 occupations in the US, UK, Canada and Australia and categorised
those occupations into 15 business functions across 16 industry sectors.
This mapping allowed them to understand how applicable automation was to different economies, sectors and
business functions.
As we can see, the 3 functions with the highest automation potential is: Finance, Administration and
Customer Service. In the finance function
it is estimated that 80% of tasks hold potential for automation. In the administration,
the number is 79% and in customer service 75%.
Note that this is potential across more technologies; both RPA, chatbots, machine learning (ML), natural language
understanding (NLU) and machine vision was part of the survey.
But these functions are probably a good starting point for having workshops and finding processes with an
automation potential and start the work with creating a long list of opportunities (in your firm).